Welcome to Scikit-Learn Machine Learning Ecosystem. After watching this video, you will be able to describe the machine learning ecosystem. You will also be able to explain the features of the scikit-Learn library and how it works. Imagine you developed a music streaming app that allows users to play and download music, share music files, and create playlists. To increase your app's user base, you collect information on your users' listening habits, such as what songs they play, how long they listen to songs, and which songs they skip. Once you've collected the information, you want to normalize it by finding inconsistent data, missing values, and outliers. Machine learning tools can generate this type of information. They are useful for data collection, preprocessing, model training, model evaluation, model deployment, and monitoring. The machine learning, or ML ecosystem, refers to the interconnected tools, frameworks, libraries, platforms, and processes that support developing, deploying, and managing machine learning models. Python offers a wide variety of tools and libraries for machine learning. Several open-sourced Python libraries comprise one of the most widely used ecosystems for machine learning. NumPy provides foundational machine learning support with its efficient numerical computations on large multidimensional data arrays. Pandas, built on NumPy and Matplotlib, is used for data analysis, visualization, cleaning, and preparing data for machine learning. Pandas uses versatile arrays called data frames to handle data. SciPy, built on NumPy, is used for scientific computing and has modules for optimization, integration, linear regression, and more. Matplotlib is built on NumPy and has an extensive, highly customizable set of visualization tools. Scikit-learn, built on NumPy, SciPy, and Matplotlib, is used for building classical machine learning models. Let's take a closer look at scikit-learn. Scikit-learn is a free machine learning library for the Python programming language. It has a wide, up-to-date selection of classification, regression, clustering, and dimensionality reduction algorithms. It's designed to work with the Python numerical and scientific libraries NumPy and SciPy. It has excellent documentation and a large community support network. Scikit-learn is constantly evolving with contributions from a community of thousands and is exceeded only by Pandas. Implementing machine learning models with scikit-learn is easy, with just a few lines of Python code. Most of the tasks that need to be done in a machine learning pipeline are already implemented in scikit-learn, including data preprocessing tasks like data cleaning, scaling, feature selection and feature extraction, train or test splitting, model setup and fitting, hyperparameter tuning with cross-validation, prediction, evaluation, and exporting the model to be used in production. Here's an example of a basic machine learning workflow using the scikit-learn library. Consider a data set X and a target variable Y, both stored as NumPy arrays. Scikit-learn's pre-processing package provides several common utility functions and transformer classes to help you prepare data for modeling. For instance, this first code block scales your data by standardizing it. In supervised learning, you want to split your data set into train and test sets to train your model and then test the model's accuracy separately. Scikit-learn can split arrays and matrices into random train and test subsets for you in one line of code. Here, 33% of the data is reserved for testing. Next, you can instantiate a classifier model using a support vector classification algorithm. This line of code generates a classification model object, called clf, and initializes its parameters, gamma and C. After initializing your model clf, you can train your model on the training data. The clf model learns to predict the classes for unknown cases by passing the training set to the fit method. Then you can use the test data to generate predictions. The result tells you the predicted class for each observation in the test set. You can also use different metrics to evaluate your model accuracy, such as a confusion matrix to compare the predicted and actual labels for the test set. And finally, you can save your model as a pickle file and retrieve it whenever you like. In this video, you have learned that a machine learning ecosystem refers to the interconnected tools, frameworks, libraries, platforms, and processes that support developing, deploying, and managing machine learning models. It uses several Python tools and libraries, such as NumPy, Pandas, SciPy, Matplotlib, and scikit-learn. Scikit-learn is a free machine learning library for Python that uses classification, regression, clustering, and dimensionality reduction algorithms. Most tests required in a machine learning pipeline are already implemented in scikit-learn. Finally, you learned the basic machine learning workflow using the scikit-learn library.